
# Plant image identification application demonstrates high accuracy in Northern Europe

Abstract Automated image-based plant identification has experienced rapid development and has been already used in research and nature management. However, there is a need for extensive studies on how accurately automatic plant identification works and which characteristics of observations and study species influence the results. We investigated the accuracy of the Flora Incognita application, a research-based tool for automated plant image identification. Our study was conducted in Estonia, Northern Europe. Photos originated from the Estonian national curated biodiversity observations database, originally without the intention to use them for automated identification (1496 photos, 542 species) were examined. Flora Incognita was also directly tested in field conditions in various habitats, taking images of plant organs as guided by the application (998 observations, 1703 photos, 280 species). Identification accuracy was compared among species characteristics: plant family, growth forms and life forms, habitat type and regional frequency. We also analysed image characteristics (plant organs, background, number of species in focus), and the number of training images that were available for particular species to develop the automated identification algorithm. From database images 79.6 % of species were correctly identified by Flora Incognita; in the field conditions species identification accuracy reached 85.3 %. Overall, the correct genus was found for 89 % and the correct plant family for 95 % of the species. Accuracy varied among different plant families, life forms and growth forms. Rare and common species and species from different habitats were identified with equal accuracy. Images with reproductive organs or with only the target species in focus were identified with greater success. The number of training images per species was positively correlated with the identification success. Even though a high accuracy has been already achieved for Flora Incognita, allowing its usage for research and practices, our results can guide further improvements of this application and automated plant identification in general.

# Automatic Plant Image Identification of Vietnamese species using Deep Learning Models

It is complicated to distinguish among thousands of plant species in the natural ecosystem, and many efforts have been investigated to address the issue. In Vietnam, the task of identifying one from 12,000 species requires specialized experts in flora management, with thorough training skills and in-depth knowledge. Therefore, with the advance of machine learning, automatic plant identification systems have been proposed to benefit various stakeholders, including botanists, pharmaceutical laboratories, taxonomists, forestry services, and organizations. The concept has fueled an interest in research and application from global researchers and engineers in both fields of machine learning and computer vision. In this paper, the Vietnamese plant image dataset was collected from an online encyclopedia of Vietnamese organisms, together with the Encyclopedia of Life, to generate a total of 28,046 environmental images of 109 plant species in Vietnam. A comparative evaluation of four deep convolutional feature extraction models, which are MobileNetV2, VGG16, ResnetV2, and Inception Resnet V2, is presented. Those models have been tested on the Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier to experiment with the purpose of plant image identification. The proposed models achieve promising recognition rates, and MobilenetV2 attained the highest with 83.9%. This result demonstrates that machine learning models are potential for plant species identification in the natural environment, and future works need to examine proposing higher accuracy systems on a larger dataset to meet the current application demand.

# Deep Learning

Machine-learning technology powers many aspects of modern society: from web searches to content filtering on social networks to recommendations on e-commerce websites, and it is increasingly present in consumer products such as cameras and smartphones. Machine-learning systems are used to identify objects in images, transcribe speech into text, match news items, posts or products with users’ interests, and select relevant results of search. Increasingly, these applications make use of a class of techniques called deep learning. Conventional machine-learning techniques were limited in their ability to process natural data in their raw form. For decades, constructing a pattern-recognition or machine-learning system required careful engineering and considerable domain expertise to design a feature extractor that transformed the raw data (such as the pixel values of an image) into a suitable internal representation or feature vector from which the learning subsystem, often a classifier, could detect or classify patterns in the input. Representation learning is a set of methods that allows a machine to be fed with raw data and to automatically discover the representations needed for detection or classification. Deep-learning methods are representation-learning methods with multiple levels of representation, obtained by composing simple but non-linear modules that each transform the representation at one level (starting with the raw input) into a representation at a higher, slightly more abstract level. With the composition of enough such transformations, very complex functions can be learned. For classification tasks, higher layers of representation amplify aspects of the input that are important for discrimination and suppress irrelevant variations. An image, for example, comes in the form of an array of pixel values, and the learned features in the first layer of representation typically represent the presence or absence of edges at particular orientations and locations in the image. The second layer typically detects motifs by spotting particular arrangements of edges, regardless of small variations in the edge positions. The third layer may assemble motifs into larger combinations that correspond to parts of familiar objects, and subsequent layers would detect objects as combinations of these parts. The key aspect of deep learning is that these layers of features are not designed by human engineers: they are learned from data using a general-purpose learning procedure. Deep learning is making major advances in solving problems that have resisted the best attempts of the artificial intelligence community for many years. It has turned out to be very good at discovering intricate structures in high-dimensional data and is therefore applicable to many domains of science, business and government. In addition to beating records in image recognition and speech recognition, it has beaten other machine-learning techniques at predicting the activity of potential drug molecules, analysing particle accelerator data, reconstructing brain circuits, and predicting the effects of mutations in non-coding DNA on gene expression and disease. Perhaps more surprisingly, deep learning has produced extremely promising results for various tasks in natural language understanding, particularly topic classification, sentiment analysis, question answering and language translation. We think that deep learning will have many more successes in the near future because it requires very little engineering by hand, so it can easily take advantage of increases in the amount of available computation and data. New learning algorithms and architectures that are currently being developed for deep neural networks will only accelerate this progress.

# A survey on Image Data Augmentation for Deep Learning

Deep convolutional neural networks have performed remarkably well on many Computer Vision tasks. However, these networks are heavily reliant on big data to avoid overfitting. Overfitting refers to the phenomenon when a network learns a function with very high variance such as to perfectly model the training data. Unfortunately, many application domains do not have access to big data, such as medical image analysis. This survey focuses on Data Augmentation, a data-space solution to the problem of limited data. Data Augmentation encompasses a suite of techniques that enhance the size and quality of training datasets such that better Deep Learning models can be built using them. The image augmentation algorithms discussed in this survey include geometric transformations, color space augmentations, kernel filters, mixing images, random erasing, feature space augmentation, adversarial training, generative adversarial networks, neural style transfer, and meta-learning. The application of augmentation methods based on GANs are heavily covered in this survey. In addition to augmentation techniques, this paper will briefly discuss other characteristics of Data Augmentation such as test-time augmentation, resolution impact, final dataset size, and curriculum learning. This survey will present existing methods for Data Augmentation, promising developments, and meta-level decisions for implementing Data Augmentation. Readers will understand how Data Augmentation can improve the performance of their models and expand limited datasets to take advantage of the capabilities of big data